What happened?  Ethnic cleansing took place
.
This
is
precisely
why
Ukraine,
yes,
.
This
is
precisely
why
Ukraine,
yes,
.
This
is
precisely
why
Ukraine,
yes,
still cannot catch up in terms of living standards to what the
Austro-Hungarian Empire could provide to its citizens.
There are legends that the janitor swept the
central street with roses.  The streets are paved with
huge, massive marble slabs.   There has
never been a war in this city.
Dad, the doctor was choosing the apartment
he wanted to move into.  moved into the one
that had a piano.
You hear the cry: "The cities, the roads of
this city, the architecture, the cars, the
trolleybuses are screaming, screaming and asking you
one question: how did it happen that
after 120 years of progress the standard of living of the
citizens has become worse than it was 120 years
ago? Chernivtsi plumbers,
Chernivtsi teachers, Chernivtsi lecturers,
Chernivtsi doctors, Chernivtsi postmen
live worse in terms of standard of living, as much as they
can afford, than these
categories lived in 1910. Brick, if it is
covered with plaster, lives almost
indefinitely, hundreds of years. The walls of this
city are losing their plaster. The city
or the city residents have no money to
restore them. And the temporary, frequently
changed covering wears out,
turning the bricks into ruins. This is how the
city is destroyed. This is how
civilizations are destroyed. Approximately the same concept is being
reconstructed for the city roads. Then, 110 years
ago, the cobblestones were laid from wall to
wall. There were no sidewalks, because there was no
intense traffic. Later they made
sidewalks, made them  from asphalt. The
asphalt has worn out, and here you see, the
cobblestones remain. And the asphalt laid
50 years ago, as it should be, has grown
worn out. And now weeds are growing out of the asphalt
. And in some places, they are
knee-deep. Here is a good segment,
where a certain private house was restored,
and the residents laid tiles in front of their
house. But this joy soon ends and
you are again greeted by this
terrible asphalt. What does this mean? This
means that the city was much
richer, could afford much
more infrastructural luxuries 110
years ago than it, this city of Chernivtsi,
can afford now. And the question
that I will try to answer today is
how we came to such a state that in
110 years the city has fallen into decline. Decline is underway
, that is, the withering of civilization,
the civilization that is now
in this city. Chernivtsi, although its
roots go back to the 15th century, truly
became a city in
1775. It is easy  remember, they are Chernivtsi, the same
age as the American Revolution. And there
were four civilizations in this city. There
was never a war in this city. Not a
single
bomb has ever fallen on this city.
Not a single bullet, not a single
artillery shell has ever been fired at this city. And not
a single mine has ever exploded here. Each time,
passing into the hands of one civilization to
another, the city was transferred
peacefully, which is what makes it of
great interest to me. In addition, unlike
Donbass, unlike other places on the
planet, where the rise and fall is associated with the
discovery and then loss of
minerals, such as gold
during the California gold rush or
some other factors, there have never
been a huge number of
minerals here. Bukovina, of
which Chernivtsi is the capital, has always been
agricultural and commercial. These are the
two zones that were and
remain. Therefore, the industrial resource
base has remained the same. It is easy to compare
like with like. From 1785
to 1919, almost 135  years, this city was
part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, one
of the most advanced civilizations in Europe and the
world at that time. That is why
Ukraine still cannot catch up in terms of
living standards with what the
Austro-Hungarian Empire could provide to its
citizens. From 1920 to 1944, almost 25 years,
this city was under the Romanians. It was
part of the Romanian state from 1944 to
1991, for
almost 45 years it was part of the Soviet
Union. And from 1991
to 2000 already 2025, I am recording a video in the
twenty-fifth year, for 35 years
this city has been part of the Ukrainian civilization. It
is easy to
see what each civilization gave to
this city.
Austria-Hungary gave this city
beautiful architecture.
This city was amazingly clean.
He says that there are legends that the
janitor swept the central street with
roses. It was so clean there. For the
garbage on the sidewalk, on that  the
cobblestones that I showed you.
The offender was punished with either a large fine
or a day in jail. And the city was one
of the first in Eastern Europe to have an
electric tram. In a city of
less than 100,000, there was an
opera house. There was one of the best
European universities, where
they taught the main and fundamental
disciplines: theology, jurisprudence and
philosophy. Those disciplines that made
Western civilization Western
civilization. Name me at least one
modern Ukrainian city of 100,000
that has a university
and an opera house. Name me a city of
200,000, 300,000, 400.
[music]
[applause]
[laughter]
[music]
What kind of strange footage is this? You're looking at a
Romanian newsreel from the first
half of the forties. Romania
was then a fascist state, and the fascists,
as they  As expected, they walked with a salute. If the
Austrians brought the opera house,
Viennese architecture, Viennese cuisine,
trains, the first electric tram, a
museum and a gallery, then the Romanians brought
cubism. Here in front of you is
typical Romanian architecture of that period,
well-preserved concrete buildings of
modernist, cubist or
art nouveau style. That was the style of the time.
And in the city, a lot, probably
30 percent of residential buildings in the
city center are from the Romanian period. The city of a hundred thousand
already had a tram, the Romanians added a
trolleybus, and since 1945, the
Soviet Union brought a bus there. 45
years of Soviet occupation or Soviet
urban development ended with typical
Soviet development. Here is a very
interesting shot. Here in front of you on the left is a
shabby house with fallen plaster from the
Austrian period. Directly in front of you is a
Soviet nine-story building. On the right is a house,
it was restored from the Romanian period. A
one-story house of some kind  zamozhnego uh
Romanian. These are my photos. This is what the
center of Warsaw looks like.
I will not show you what
Krakow looks like and what Wroclaw looks like. This is an even
more beautiful, preserved building. And
Warsaw is interesting to us because it was
completely destroyed during
World War II. Not a single stone was left there
. Nevertheless, the city restored the
old part of the city. It is in front of you.
And it looks much better than the historical part of the uh little Paris, the city of Chernivtsi, which was
not destroyed by anyone, not touched by anyone. Not a
single bomb fell, overgrown with weeds
and with crumbling plaster.
This channel is for smart
people and any smart person will immediately
object. Comparing Chernivtsi with Warsaw is
stupid. Warsaw is the capital.
Absolutely all the Poles invested there, so they
restored their pride. Kyiv also
looks good. We need to compare
Chernivtsi with something similar. Well,
I will not compare it with Wroclaw and Krakow
. Let's  Let's compare it to a very small
town, which was once,
by the way, part of Ukraine. Przemysl. This is what
Przemysl looks like. A beautiful
city. I drove through it on my way to
Ukraine, took these photos myself. This is what
it looks like during the day. This is what it looks like
at night. There are paved streets there,
through which no weeds grow. There is not a
single building in the city center from which the
plaster has fallen. For some reason, the
people of Przemysl found the
money to rebuild their city. For some reason, the people of Chernya did not find the money to rebuild their city. And
this is why it happened, what is
happening to Ukraine using the example of
Bukovina, using the example of Chernivtsi, our
story today. Before you is a map of the
Austro-Hungarian Empire in
1910 with the ethnic distribution of
national minorities. The
colors indicate those same national
minorities. Note that
Ukrainians, it is written so,
are a brick-yellow color. Here in the
right corner. Accordingly, here are Bohemia
and Moravia, blue, surrounded by red
pieces, what later  called the
Sudeten Germans. That is, this is the part of the
Austrian Empire, speaking
German, framing Bohemia and
morality. Then there is German-speaking Tyrol,
uh, and Austria. Green Hungary.
Brown are these Slavs. Here are the
Slovenians. In the south we see Corniola. There is
no such country now. Now it is
Slovenia with its capital in Ljubljana. Kruje -
Slovonia. That's what it was called then. The
coast, where Addar and below
was called Dalmatia. On the other side of
the ridge is Herzegovina. Bosnia, Sarajevo,
where the ex-Duke Ferdinand was killed. And we will
enlarge this map and look at its
eastern part. We see the same
Przemysl, which is in Galicia,
and in Ukrainian-speaking
territory. We saw lions, but
strangely the lions and its surroundings
are painted Polish.
It turns out that Poles lived in Lviv and around it. Lviv has
always been a Polish city,  as we can
see now on this map, an island of
Polish speech around the Ukrainian-speaking
Orthodox population. Further we see
Uzhgorod, which is located on the territory of
Hungary. We see German settlements
deep in these red colors. These are
German settlements, German villages,
located on the territory of Slavic
Ukraine. What later became Ukraine,
then everything was Austria-Hungary. And here are
our Chernivtsi, which are on the
border of the Romanian settlement,
Romanian-Moldavian, then they were not
different, but it is clearly visible that
Chernivtsi is on the territory of the
Ukrainian-speaking
Ukrainian-language, then it was called the
Rusyn
population. Accordingly, Chernivtsi, a
Ukrainian city. So, the answer is: no, not
so. Not quite, at least not so.
We look at the mm census. In 1910, the
Austrians kept excellent records of the
population. 800,000 live in Bukovina.
87,000 in the city of Chernivtsi.
We look at  nationality. Then it was
determined by the language
you speak at home. Uh, the nationalities
inhabiting Bukovina. 38% Ukrainians,
also known as Rusyns. Romanian 35%. Germans - 8%.
People speaking Yiddish 13%. The third
national majority throughout
Bukovina, Polish 4.5, other nations,
including Armenians and so on, only 2%.
But in the city of Chernivtsi, everything is completely
different. The population of the city was ethnically
significantly different from the population of the
district itself. So, the Ukrainian
population in the city was only 17%,
Romanian 16%.
But German, German-speaking 33%,
Yiddish 17%,
Polish 12% and so on. So we
must conclude that
Chernivtsi was a German city, since
Ukrainians and Romanians made up two times
less than the German-speaking population of the
city. Right? No, wrong.
Let's look at the next one  statistics. the same
period, the same census of
1910. And we see that by religion the most
important religion of the city is 32% -
Jews, exactly a third. And you may
ask: "And how is it that
only 17% speak Yiddish, but 32% are
Jews." This means that a huge
number of the Jewish population switched
to German. They speak
German at home, and on Saturday they walk to the
synagogue. and not Jews who speak
German, just as in America there
are Jews who go to synagogue and
speak English and so on. Do you
understand? So, Chernivtsi, well, at the time
when the Romanian government came there, was a
Jewish city. Before us is the census of the
population at the end of the Romanian period before the
invasion of the Soviet Union,
1939. And you see that the Jewish
population remains 30%,
uh, the Ukrainian 15-17%.
I mean  within the city, despite the
fact that Ukrainians are about 40% of all
Bukovina, that is, Bukovina 850,000 is
populated by 40% Ukrainians, but in the city there are
only 15-17% Ukrainians. And the
first interesting question arises: why is that?
Why are Ukrainians so disproportionately
represented in this city? There
was no discrimination, I will talk about this in my next video about Chernivtsi. But, at least,
Ukrainians were not discriminated against more
than Jews. In fact, it was an
amazing place on the planet, where there
was practically no state
discrimination on ethnic and
religious grounds. And any,
absolutely any ethnic composition,
ethnic group could
develop perfectly, given that it spoke
German. One of the key factors is a
German city, a German state
language, a German university, German
business correspondence. Although
business correspondence and state
documents were also published in Romanian
and Ukrainian. Despite all this, a very
low representation of the Ukrainian
population within the city.  Why? The
most obvious answer lies in the meaning of the word
bourgeoisie. Bourgeois means a burgher, a
person who lives in the city, a
city dweller. In order to live in the
city, and it is more expensive to live in the city than outside the
city or in a small town, you need to be
engaged in commerce. Only
commercial professions can comfortably and
conveniently afford to live in the city.
From here we come to the first conclusion, where did the
Protestants and Catholics Germans come from here, in general, in a Slavic, Romanian place, well, a place that is definitely Orthodox, Greek Catholic. The answer is
very simple. Since the modern
annexation of this part of the territory from
Moldova, the
Austrians have been artificially settling Germans from Silesia, from
Bavaria, from the
same Sudetenland, from
Moravia, from Bohemia. That is, these
Germans moved here so that
they could participate in world
commerce. They were created by favorable
tax conditions so that Germans
from other parts of the German lands
would move here, where are they from here
took over. Accordingly, those national
minorities inclined to negationism, that
is, neciation, to trade, lived in the
city. Ukrainians were not created for trade, for
negotiation then.
Entrepreneurship was not in the peasants'
factory, not in their blood. This does not mean that there
were no Ukrainian merchants here. There were,
well, not in such proportionally large
numbers as it was among the
German, Armenian or Jewish. In
the city, however, there was a majority. The majority
here were Rusyns. They were engaged in
servicing rich people. That is,
cabbies, waiters,
tavern keepers. There were those very Rus. While you are
looking at these historical photographs,
pay attention to how people are dressed
on the street. This is high culture. These are
tailor-made clothes, these are fashionable
hats. These are very expensive shoes. And this is
formal clothing, which does not exist
in Ukraine now. I am in
Chernivtsi. I went to a concert of organ
music.
people dressed in a more or less
highly cultured manner, well, that is, in evening
dresses, in  jackets, in pairs of trousers, in a three-
piece suit in trousers and so on, there
was not a single one at all. I suggest you visit the
New York Metropolitan, visit the
San Francisco Opera or Ballet for the
same organ concert, and you will be
surprised, you will see evening dresses,
mantles, diamonds. you will see objects of
high culture. And what does the
demographic composition of the Chernivtsi
region look like, the same Bukovina and Chernivtsi?
Now in Ukraine there has been only one
, one and only
population census. What is characteristic, the Prussians
had them every 10 years. Ukraine has had only one in 35 years
. This in itself
says a lot. And as a result of that 2001
, 25 years ago, we learn the following. The
urban population is 80%
Ukrainians, 11% Russians, 4% Romanians,
1.5% Moldovans, half a percent Poles,
half a percent Jews, there are no Germans
left. What happened? It happened
ethnic cleansing. The Germans fled in
1940 under the Hammertorentrop Pact
from Bukovina to Germany. Then they
fought on the side of, naturally,
Nazi Germany. Many died,
many moved to Germany. This is a
separate story. The Jews were partially
exterminated, but there were quite a lot of them
after the war. And most of the Jews
moved, left this land. They
went to Israel. The Poles were protected
after the war and moved to Poland. And the bottom
line was that there were Ukrainians and
Russians, who were actively resettled here
after World War II.
Local residents told me how
empty houses stood here.
There were no Germans, the Jews were killed, the Poles
were cleansed, and the city stood empty. The
woman who came here was a child.
Dad, a doctor, was choosing an apartment
he wanted to move into. moved into the one with a
piano. The city was literally
ethnically cleansed. There were
practically no people left in the city whose
grandfathers and  grandmothers, great-grandfathers and
great-grandmothers lived in Chernivtsi. There are
many people in the city whose grandfathers and grandmothers lived
in the villages around Chernivtsi. There are a
lot of them. But very few Chernivtsi residents can
boast that my great-grandfather lived
on this street, in this house until
1945. There are almost no such people
left here. So, the first answer to my
question. What happened? The following.
Ethnic groups of the population inclined to
entrepreneurship and business were
either destroyed or evicted. That is,
ethnic klnzing, ethnic cleansing and the
rural population from the districts. Following
industrialization, a huge
number of Soviet enterprises,
Soviet nine-story buildings were built. They were settled in
these two-story buildings, forced or given
the opportunity to work at the factories.
Chernivtsi had a fairly developed
industry, they were resettled to the city. These people
do not have the culture of building an
economically developed society. the level of
urban development, the level of commerce, the
level of commercial development in the city
fell, which  and explains the fact that
after 110 years the standard of living in the city has not
increased compared to what it was
here before
1910.
What happened to Chernivtsi
is called urban dec, that is, the decline of the
city. This happens sometimes when
one civilization for some reason is
forced to leave the city
it created, and another civilization, having come to take
its place, does not have the level of
civilizational culture to at least
support the high civilization
that they got for free.
Accordingly, the plaster falls off,
weeds grow from the pavements, the standard of
living falls. And this is what Palermo looks like, for example
. My memories of Palermo are
black asphalt patches on white
marble streets. The streets are paved with
huge massive marble slabs. In
some places these slabs were stolen for some reason.
Instead, the city patched up the holes with asphalt.
In Chernivtsi, this is not even true. There, in those
places where the asphalt has collapsed, it
just lies there, destroyed.  I saw it in
Palermo with my own eyes. The picture is in front of
you. A palace, a beautiful palace, a
colonnade, porticoes, a huge stercase, a
staircase leading up
to the colonnade. All the windows are boarded up with plywood. There
is a fountain in front of the palace that doesn't work. There is
rainwater of an incomprehensible freshness in the fountain
. A
busty African-American woman comes out of this palace through the boarded-up windows. On
her head is a tray with dishes, she sits down
near this fountain and starts washing her dishes in that
liquid, the fountain doesn't
work, and carries them away.
At the same time, a small black boy
urinates under this facade in the corner of the
house. This is what a modern
polema looks like. But this is not the only reason
that happened to Chernivtsi.
Socialism happened to Chernivtsi. This is what
happened to Argentina. Argentina has
beautiful architecture, which
is in varying degrees of decline. There
was no civilizational replacement there.
Socialism came there. Chernivtsi was one
of the most advanced economic  zones,
free trade zones. I will talk about this
in the next video,
which was replaced by socialism. These are the two
reasons. Socialism plus civilizational
substitution. and made it so that in 110 years the
standard of living in Chernivtsi became lower than it
was before. And follow my channel.
In the coming days, the next video will be released,
where I will talk about Chernivtsi, the
most beautiful city in the world, which
had one of the freest
economies, which was not inferior in the
speed of economic development to the United
States and Argentina, then the two
locomotives of the world economy. They
had the most progressive taxes. And everything
that I talked about on my channel, how a
fair Ukraine should be organized, was already in Ukraine,
at least on the territory of
Ukraine. Those same electoral systems,
those same taxes, everything that I
talked about on my channel,
was already in Chernivtsi. But this is my next
video. Thank you for watching this
video to the end. Links to my
You can find the Telegram channel, email and other social networks below.
Here are the most important videos of my
channel. Channels where I discuss
freedom  e societies and philosophies on which
this freedom is built.  Here, for example, is the
Lyubarsky School, a channel about the history of
America and the lessons and mistakes that
America has gone through in pursuit of a free
society.  And also my latest
Playlist on Liberty - an overview of the
political philosophy that has become the
fundamental basis of the Western world.
If you are not interested in politics, then
politics will be interested in you.
Yeah.